List the main objectives of the proposed research in order of priority
Over the 24-month period of funding, our main objectives are:
1. Train Thai graduate students in the handling of very large datasets, and in particular database management and machine learning-based automated, via a series of research projects. On completion of these projects, the students will possess a range of high-level skills that will be readily transferrable to sectors that are well-positioned to help Thailand transition from a middle to upper-income economy.

2. Establish a data centre at NARIT to store, organise and analyse data produced by the Gravitational-wave Optical Transient Observatory GOTO. As well as being an important research asset for NARIT capable of feeding through to NARIT's other facilities for (semi-) automated follow-up observations, the data centre will be a valuable “Big Data” training resource for the broader Thai research community.

3. Hold a series of 5-day practical workshops during which we will use a cloud-based representation of the aforementioned data centre (to avoid issues surrounding security and data access rights) as a training resource to teach NARIT and other Thai staff and students Big Data handling techniques. These workshops will be attended by up to 30 trainees and will cover database management and the basics of machine learning-based analyses.  

Describe the proposed research in simple terms in a way that could be publicised to a general audience.
The most effective way of reducing levels of poverty in developing countries is through their continued economic development, which leads to increased levels of income per person. To remain competitive, however, a developing economy needs access to a workforce with increasingly sophisticated skills. For Thailand today, this means skills that enable innovation, allowing it to successfully compete against other developing and developed economies. With more and more sectors collecting data on their customers, production lines, distribution networks, stock prices, etc.,  one of the most crucially needed "high-level" skills is the ability to handle large amounts of digital data. However, Thai data scientists and students typically lack ready access to very large datasets, which presents a barrier to their training in this area. Similarly, astronomers (both UK and Thai) typically lack the necessary data handling skills to store and analyse these data most efficiently. Our project addresses both these problems by combining UK and Thai astronomers' access to and understanding of very large datasets with Thai data scientists' skills in databasing and machine learning to train Thai students in advanced data handling techniques.

Working under the supervision of the Thai and UK partners, the graduate students involved in the project will establish a data centre in Thailand to store and automatically analyse the hundreds of gigabytes of data generated each night by the Gravitational-wave Optical Transient Observatory (GOTO) - a major new survey telescope of which NARIT is a contributing member. In the process, the students will gain vital experience of database management and automated, machine learning-based data analyses. The resulting data centre will be an important research asset for NARIT astronomers and a key training resource for the broader Thai scientific community. Indeed, we will ourselves use the data centre as a training aid in teaching data handling skills to up to 60 other researchers and students during two 5-day practical workshops (one held each year with space for up to 30 trainees each). Through three graduate research projects, our team will develop the data centre into an automated storage and analysis system with the ultimate goal of outputting a prioritised list of targets for follow-up observations with NARIT's other observing facilities. In doing so, the Thai data centre will be at the forefront of all GOTO data centres in terms of data handling research. On completion of the project, the skills acquired by the Thai students will be readily transferrable to a diverse range of economic sectors such as information technology, medicine, finance, security, etc., thereby helping the further economic development of Thailand.

Beneficiaries:
Since the benefits of the research on the Thai students and the Thai economy are outlined in the Case for Support, here we focus on the benefits of the research component of the project, i.e., establishing a Thai data centre to store and analyse GOTO data:

The second objective of the project (and the focus of the students' research) is to develop a Thai data centre specifically designed to store and auomatically analyse data from GOTO. In the first instance, this data centre will benefit members of the GOTO collaboration, as part of its science goals is to provide prioritised lists of sources for follow-up by other observing facilities, including - importantly - those operated by NARIT. On this latter point, should the automated pipeline play a role in identifying large numbers of optical counterparts to Gravitational Waves, it will have significant impact on large numbers of scientists (astronomers and physicists) who work in this area. By enabling us to identify the optical counterparts, astronomers will be able to study them in far greater detail, allowing physicists to test their theories of Gravitational Wave emitters. The scientific impact of the work could, therefore, be very significant.

Beyond Gravitational Waves, there is also potential for the outcome of the research to be used in astronomy surveys more generally. With the development of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) well underway (engineering first light expected 2019, science first light 2021), wide area transient surveys will soon deliver vast amounts of data on a nightly basis. Such data cannot be analysed manually, so it is vital that we develop automated analysis pipelines to analyse this data effectively and efficiently. With its weekly scans of the whole northern sky, GOTO is a precursor to what we can expect to receive with the LSST. By using GOTO as a testbed for automated analysis software, our research will pave the way for efficient automated analysis in astronomical surveys. In doing so, it has the potential to play an important role in making data from the next generation of survey facilities accessible to all astronomers, professional or otherwise.


Impact Summary:
The immediate impact of this research will be on the Thai scientists and students who will receive training in high-level data handling skills either via their research projects or by attending one of the 5-day workshops. Following this training, the scientists and students will be able to apply these skills within a diverse range of growth sectors, such as finance, medicine, logistics, information technology etc. In doing so, they will benefit the wider Thai economy by helping it grow and compete internationally through innovation.

Further impact will be felt by the scientists and astronomers who are involved in GOTO - of which NARIT is a major contributing member. By establishing a data centre to host and automatically analyse large amounts of digital data, the outcome of the students' research will play an important role in extracting information from the vast amounts of data that GOTO will provide. This information can then be fed through to other NARIT facilities for follow-up observations, including by their network of Robotic Telescopes within outreach centres across Thailand. This latter point opens the prospect of the project raisng awareness amongst students, schoolchildren and the general public of the impact that Big Data can have on scientific research. 

 
